1. Supreme Court ruling expands Trump's power - and he intends to use it
The Supreme Court on Friday handed a significant victory to Donald Trump - and future American presidents - when curbing lower courts' power to block executive orders. President Trump was beaming as he addressed reporters at the White House briefing room podium, calling it a "big, amazing decision" which the administration is "very happy about". He said it was a "monumental victory for the constitution, the separation of powers and the rule of law". The court's decision not only impacts Trump's birthright citizenship order, but also emboldens him to enact many of his other policy actions that have been temporarily thwarted by similar injunctions. The Supreme Court has opened the door for the Trump administration to no longer grant automatic citizenship to everyone born on American soil – at least for the moment. Now the White House will have to implement its plan, which will be no easy task.

2. Head of US-backed aid agency defends work after hundreds killed near Gaza sites
The head of a controversial US and Israeli-backed aid group has defended its work after repeated incidents of killings and injuries of Palestinians seeking aid. Gaza Humanitarian Foundation (GHF) boss Johnnie Moore told the BBC World Service's Newshour he was not denying deaths near aid sites, but said "100% of those casualties are being attributed to close proximity to GHF" and that was "not true".  He accused the UN and other international organisations of spreading information they could not verify.  The GHF aid system has been condemned by UN agencies, and on Friday UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres branded it "inherently unsafe".  "Any operation that channels desperate civilians into militarized zones is inherently unsafe. The search for food must never be a death sentence," the UN chief said.

3. I found a bacteria-eating virus in my loo - could it save your life?
I'm on the hunt for a microbial saviour – a type of virus that can treat infections rather than cause them. We all know the viral bad guys – Covid, flu, norovirus, herpes, chicken pox, measles… the list goes on. But there's a type of virus that's not interested in infiltrating our bodies, instead it preys on bacteria. They're known as bacteria eaters, or bacteriophage, or commonly as phage. Capturing them could give us new ways of treating infections, including superbugs that are becoming incurable.

4. In pictures: Celebrities descend on Venice for Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez's wedding
Reality stars, actors, royals and a whole host of A-listers have travelled to Venice  for the lavish wedding of Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and TV presenter Lauren Sanchez. Oprah Winfrey, Orlando Bloom, Kylie Jenner and Ivanka Trump were just some of the celebrities seen on the boats and streets of the Italian city on Thursday and Friday. The festivities are expected to last three days, ending with a large party for the married couple and their hundreds of guests on Saturday.  The event has attracted protests from a variety of groups in Venice, including locals fighting over-tourism to climate change activists. Sanchez, 55, wore a lace Dolce & Gabbana haute couture gown for the wedding - she was seen smiling alongside a jubilant Bezos, 61, after the ceremony, in a picture posted on Instagram.

5. 'Commercialising concussion': The Australians taking a backyard collision game global
"Defender ready?" calls the host. A thumbs up and moments later, two burly men - with no protective gear - run full speed at each other before they clash, the unmistakable sound of flesh and bone crunching. The crowd erupts into a collective roar, some cheering, others wincing. This is the moment they've been waiting for - and it's exactly this adrenaline-fuelled energy that organisers of the Run It Championship League are banking on to help bring what they call the "world's fiercest, new collision sport" to global audiences. It is a supercharged version of a one-on-one tackle game which originated in the backyards and school playgrounds of Australia and New Zealand - namely in Pacific Islander communities.

